The app developers can have access to the apps that are being used on the phones that their operating system is running. Using that they can identify the features that their next os release must have.

How about an application that always keeps you connected, at the background. The application can have a list of people whom you regularly come in connection on daily basis. When you want to wake some one, you need to be part of their list. 
Like how you wake up google with OK google, the same phrase can be used to send a trigger to person you want to get in touch. The application will have access to the phone lock screen of those who have installed. If the application finds the lock screen is closed, then will inform that the call trigger has been sent and ask us to leave a voice message.

Objective is to have a calm brain and be creative by connecting to my mind on frequent basis. Meeting my basic needs will keep me calm. While thinking about the goals, future the calmness gets shattered. Realising the source of impatience, anxiety has given me strength.

App whose purpose is to bet on the success or failure of the daily activities, done by the friends and family. How much would you stake yourself in getting something, or completing a task.
Create it in DAO, so the stakes are the Tokens that are earned and bought. 

Destructive, yet very interesting situation. Collective of debtors to the bank start defaulting their loans. They have no means to pay, and there is no collateral with them. In some sense the Credit speeds up progress of those who are not yet wealthy. Gives them the time needed to think, and execute new ideas. In that process the progress is created to those without it, and wealth to those bank's investor. 

I have come to this level because, credit was extended by my family. Then the progress was multiplied as I got credit from the society. Society grew inequally, but it grew radically. Because of the simple assumption that, I will be employed and pay down my debts to the society. That itself is a contribution.


What if there is a way to grow without becoming a debtor, like many who have become the millionaires? They don't take loans and they are in control of their time. Debt can be a stick that gets people to move, along with their perspective on the respect and connection they recieve from the world. 

Getting bogged down by your own self-appraisal, which is abysmal?? Your self_Image is so inflated
that even a sly remark from a friend wreaks havoc in your life?? Those are clearly symptoms of objective 
less life. Medicine is Goals. Get some by looking outwards, looking for places to contribute, and 
people to help.
Keep your day filled with activity, like doing cardio exercise in the gym. 

The git hub usage has to be increased. There are ways to show case the work that I am doing on 
everyday basis. 

There are couple of commands that I need to try and master, 
Crosstab, sidetable, using multiple tables and aggregate them

There are skills that are required at every level of the data science. Before going into the skills
the application of datascience can be used in numerical/ statistical machine learning, language 
modeling, and computer vision. 

The process starts with the acquisition of data that is to be used for analysis. Currently, I can
confidently pull-in data from CSV and XLS files. If there are multiple XL files, with sheets in 
them that can be pulled in. 

Need to train: 	On establishing pipe lines for the pictures, and text data. 
       	        Practice working on the text ingestion and post processing.
		Work on Json pattern recognition and pulling the necessary data for analysis.
		Practice the business related aspects of excel, and pandas more throughly.
		Learn about the one, two and multifactor EDA
		Learn about the SQL query and establishing pipeline from the database

Once the data is post processed, and ready in the long format, then comes the visualisation process.
Here the libraries that I am confident is Seaborn, Plotly and Dash. The idea of creating dashboards 
is very inspiring and the impact can be felt real time. As I am typing, I can think about the dash
that can be created for the NFL dataset. 

Need to learn: 	Creating functions based on the complex chart functions, and associated parameters.
		Combine the lessons learnt from excel, and the charting functions to prettify charts.
		Create the charts that can tell the story, without typing a single word
		Showing multiple colors depending a particular cutoff on the axis
		Creating most of the dashboard styles that were 
		Creating a dashboard that provides information on the Indian companies, their management and news related to the 
		management. This could be real fun.  
		Work on extracting data from XL and manipulating it and rewriting it
		Practice SQL query from the Hacker rank. Collect the complete basics to advanced querying for reference
		Understand, how the OCR works
		Learn how the PDF data extraction works
		Creating database of companies, and their products in amazon, their reviews, price and specifications
		Concentrate on get the data from a single page, and populate. There are benefits doing this as a 
		project. I am being pulled in other directions like doing the EDA for the new competition, or 
		working on the pdf extraction methods, or learning more on the sql and even dive deeper into the 
		datascience. 
		

Based on the EDA, the dependency of the target variable with the independent variables can be infered
The models ranging from logistic regression to advanced deep learning can be fitted on the data.
Learning the basics of the models will give more confidence on the application to which a particular
algorithm can be applied. Even though, the models can be applied in a blanket fashion to get the best
possible cross validation and test scores.

Knowing the difference between accuracy, precision and validation results using the curve is 
important. The reduction in the validation score, while the test score being flat or increasing 
shows the overfitting. 

Need to Learn :about Cross Validation, Hyper parameters and Grid search processes in this area
            Learning the Gridsearch, and CV process at the function level gave some idea. 
            Hyper parameter tuning of the Neural networks needs to be further understood. 
            Building the neural networks based on the problem at hand, is another area to be learnt
	    Attend couple of interviews, and learn the ropes of the real world scenarios
	    Complete watching the series about the various solvers and libraries out there, and their salient features
	    Need to learn the extraction process from the PDF files, and the OCR libraries. This is important skill
	    Need to understand how the 3D rendering using the Javascript can be leveraged for the web scraping
	    Work on converting webpages by using xslt transformation, using lxml python library

               
Work on the Natural Language processing,Dimensionality reduction. 

The driving factor behind this is to aggregate the news, information from NET and 
other sources into the price predicting factors. It starts with the desire to understand the world 
around you, and how you can impact the future

Javascript language is showing a different route to the treasure trove of information that is on the 
internet. Learning this language will help in getting data, that may not be easily accessible from 
regular html pages

With the recent learnings taken from NLP notebooks, the language, entity and meaning representation is 
made more interesting the with Spacy and Transformers libraries. Need to understand how these fit in 
and start utilising them effectively. 
Important is using the pytorch to run the learning models. The tensors represented in pytorch is different
from the Numpy / Pandas representation. In order to reach that, first the basic understanding of the 
libraries, and how they modify the language into math notations is more important. 

The idea of having question answer bots that can answer quora questions reliably will be a fun project
to take on. What I have found is that the ecosystem surrounding the Natural language processing, the 
amount of data available, the number of trained models available. All have increased exponentially and 
doing so everyday. 

What I am intending to do by learning above technologies? 

Not just to get a job as a Data Scientist. To build something that is useful and contributes to the 
society. So 

What I will do if I have all the time?

Will start building the data pipeline for collecting the information from the internet sources like
	messari, amazon, matrimony sites, and even the mails 
	find ways to use the text data in unique ways to automate the work
	free the need of rote work in using the data that is already available, but unreachable due to memory
	master the use of sql in storing and reaching the data
	improve profieciency in using the ML/ DL model generation from the data. 
	generate new ideas for products that can be implemented in this NLP 

Project 1: Create a bot that can answer any question about the stock market, crypto market by learning about the data scraped from the internet.

Project 2: Convert the picture shown into description of the picture. Not just classification, but 
see the picture and write about it.

There is existing library to find the description of the picture, called clarifai. This library needs 
API key authentication. Similarly for the idea of answering the questions about particular product or 
scrip in the market, and directly do the web search. 

My idea was to use the entire corpus of data, learn from that. Then use sequence generator that is 
created using Neural networks and use them. 

Project 3: Next step is take the video, and explain what is seen in the video. 

Project 4: Include the speech recognition libraries, and convert the speech into text. Then find the 
intention, inference. Use that data to create dashboard to show information that might be helpful to 
the conversation. 

Before learning about the neural networks, and their impmlementation I think it is better to understand 
the traditional NLP more clearly. The choice of NN is pytorch. In of traditional NLP, the word embedding
the dependencies and the POS tagging was done manually, using the libraries like spaCy. These libraries
where already having various language models that are built into them, for different purposes. 

Starting with POS, dependencies, entities the list continues. Knowing this, the sentences can be split
into constituents, and analysis can be carried out. The patterns in these sentences can be used to 
classify the type, intent and to some extent meaning in the sentence. 

Ability to predict the answer for a question, using the training on the model seems less intuitive. How 
a model with set of numbers, that take in the question, made of words converted to numbers that provide
it embedding and position can come up with new words. Under the hood, the numbers are being predicted, 
which are then parsed into positions and word embedding that become the words.

Timeseries forecasting is powering underneath the language transformers and neural nets. After all only
numbers can be predicted. Once predicted, it again depends on the embedding that numbers have to get 
back into words. NNs have to modify not only the numbers, but learn the embeddings dynamically for the 
given corpus, in parallel work on predicting the next work. Multi-layered problem. 
Training in NLP, a plan: 

Project 4: Take the notes that is written with specific tags, then automatically parse it into separate
rows or columns of data. 

Project 5: Scrape the websites of companies, get all their annual reports and extract the multiple data 
from different format reports. How might I do that? 
	Messari website researched, and the data location is understood...
	Need to work on different websites, and get a feel of the challenges

Project 6: Program should take a question or subject line of the mail , and create summary of activities 
that has been done in the subject line, by reading the mails and summarising the following. 
	from: , to: , date: followed by summary of the mail: 

Project 7: Take a PDF and convert it to text, then send it through spacy and get the following.
	The people the book talks about, and their background introduction.
		* Couple of ways to do this. Feel both Transformers and Spacy's NERs will be required
		* Locating quotes from the book

Project 8: Work on automating salesforce!!! 
	Getting the price. It seems there is a report that can list all the price registered till date. Crucial point is selectin the correct option to generate the report.
    
Project 9: Converting the complete messages to emoticons by using simple classification and showing it without even opening the messages recieved. (This heuristic will link the words uttered by the bot/avatar and link with the range of emotions. Automate the emotions to bring the avatar to life, artificially. Because, there might be a possibility to program personality in the 
same way. Afterall personality is way of reacting to the stimuli coming from the world. Being non-challant under onslaught of fire or danger, or even in rapid reply meetings.

Project 10: Automated resume change tool. Tool that can read your existing resume, add the new experience on the existing points 
you have. Simple cut and replace of the existing skills with new skills, and in other cases complete revamp of the resume is 
automated. 

Take atleast 5 NLP related competition and complete it till submission, apart from the introductory 
tweets classification competition. 
	TREC-COVID Information Retrieval
	Google QUEST Q&A Labeling
	Youtube Review text Analytics
	Bag of Words Meets Bags of Popcorn... Significant progress has been 
	Feedback Prize for the Children summary
	Quora Questions classification

The challenges that needs to be addressed. 
	Improve the time experiments take and the validation done in creating the language models. 
	Target improving the prediction accuracy as result of identifying the correct model. 
	Learning ways to extract information from the corpus. 
		Intent recognition using pattern matching of Entities, POS 
		Identifying entities and their roles in summarising.
		Learn algorithms to answer questions. Transformers seem to be best choice here. RNN had been 
		used in the past. 

Real question is how to contribute with the NLP knowledge of information extraction and use it real 
world project. Using the topic modelin, classification, and text generation what can be created? 

If the topics are important points that are filtered from the bigger corpus, can a corpus be created 
from the set of topics, like number, date, actions/ intents. How about taking the numerical data 
and convert them into explanation and then to voice. Three steps 

Text analysis using the depth of options in creating new pipe for identifying, classifying needs to be 
practiced. 

Reflect the problems that I have come across and solved either by using web or myself. Hold on.. If I am going 
to see how others have solved the problems, then wouldn't be easier to read, understand the curated problems, and then make notes of it, like I do for other libraries?

Challenge here is the time spent on searching for the solution myself, using creativity and experience. Lets say, I spend 15 mins on each of 57 problems that are curated. Which means, 16 approx hours are required with a time constraint. If I try my best for 15 mins, and unable to solve then I check the solution. All I am asking is 15 mins per problem....

Concentration required on the mastering problem solving and programming the solution:
    The time involved is considered as the exercise or practice with intention of feeling the mastery over the 
    majority of problems that I might come across in real world conditions.
    Write a lot of code.. solve a lot of problems from leet code and learn from others.
    Target to solve 1 problem per day. Learn about the problem in the morning. Work on it in breaks, and then 
    write the code in the evening.
    Once the problem is solved, reflect the directions taken to solve the problem. Record them 
    Solving problems using code, and try creating functions for the same.
    Understand the real world ML application

If one thing I have learnt more in-depth is, how the classes, and its objects are created. Then using it with the tests that can 
be automated given me a new superpower. To check my program without breaking a sweat. I am struggling to prioritize the next steps.

Attempt the coding challenges of Python the hard way 
	The usage of class as a container to hold data is interesting lesson I learnt.
	Implementing the Dash card game using lists, needs to be explored. 
Attempt the coding challenges of 57 problems 
	Implementing the GUI for examples can help me learn TKinter
	
Work on parsing text. In fact, need to take special 	

Attempt the Coding challenge of the Turning.com

Attempt the coding challenge of the leetcode.com

Attempt to complete the Data Science from Scratch book.
	Will create DS_fromScratch Repo, and make notebooks 
	Try out all the exercises in the same way as Learn Python the Hardway.

Attempt to complete the More python the hard way. The book gives high level of confidence. 

Thinking about it, the reason I want to code is to improve my life and those surrounding me with the code. So I should attempt the 
challenges, exactly as listed above. May be I can work on the 1st two and the next 2 together. Data Science from Scratch needs to 
wait. Improving my coding skills will provide me with the confidence, and any new project I can start with clear process.  